# Progress #

## Bill ##

* Karmarkar: status update
    * Yesterday, I synced with Verona on some issues that we've raised
      with MIT-LL on Karmarkar that have been open for weeks/months
      now, and that we're concerned won't be resolved before the
      deadline. Verona and I made some reasonable choices and posted
      our intentions to the MITLL git. You can check out the comments
      if interested.
    * Of note: their implementation comutes the iteration bound based
      on the maximum possible values that can be represented in
      floating point values, whereas our computes it from the private
      inputs and reveals it using an MPC. We agreed that the first is
      a baseline implementation and the second can be an "extra
      credit" solution.
    * Also of note: the reference includes non-sensical early reveals
      that leak extra information. Their code includes syntax that
      corresponds to this, which their language ensures is
      multiplexed. Ours currently doesn't include early reveals, but I
      agreed that putting it in is probably for the "best." I'll push
      a version that includes this code in the next week.
    * govt-facing syntax?
    * support for sqrt?
* Faithfully implementing SPDZ (offline/online protocols in general)
  * option: declare protocol sessions (`karmarkar-decl.psl`)
  * option: build protocol sessions (`karmarkar-setup.psl`)
  * I've added some more notes on this to `writeup/spdz.md`
* Verification for quicksort
  * Challenge: finding the right abstraction for (PKI) signed values
  * Challenge: finding the right abstraction for
    commitments/hashes/Merkle tree roots
  * There seem to be very feasible design options here that will
    naturally extend what we already have (thank god).
  * Will push mockups for different design proposals by the end of the
    week

## GTDave/Mike ##

* update on semantics
    * issue 27
* sync on issue 24

## Ryan ## 

# Next steps #

## Bill ##

* karmarkar: add early returns
* push mockups of implementing verification

## Dave ##

## Mike ##

* figure out fixpoints
